README.md, before:

# Level Up!

A RimWorld mod adding notifications when a colonist levels up a skill.

### Compatibility
- Compatible with RimWorld **v1.0**, **v1.1** and the **Royalty** DLC.
- Should be compatible with any mods.

### Notes
- Safe to add and remove from existing saves.
- Add anywhere in your load order.
- This mod is different on v1.0 and v1.1 of RimWorld. You can use it on both versions, but they are slightly different. 
Read the [Release notes](https://github.com/krafs/LevelUp/releases/tag/v2.0.0) to learn what has changed.

### How to use
Just play like normal. You'll get notified whenever a colonist levels up.

*Level up* is enabled by default. If you want to get notifications when a colonist levels down, enable it in the mod settings.

#### "My colonist levels up and then almost instantly down again!"
This is caused by a feature in vanilla RimWorld known as *skill decay*. Skills at lvl 10 and higher lose xp. If xp goes low enough, the skill levels down. The rate of skill decay increases with every level - It is slow at lvl 10, and fast at lvl 20.
This can lead to two problems:

- A colonist on level 10 or higher in a skill she almost never uses will lead to that skill almost always ending up at the very top of lvl 9, because skill decay stops as soon as a skill goes below lvl 10. This means that only a tiny bit of xp is needed to level her up to lvl 10 again, which then goes down to 9 again, and so on.

- A colonist with a high level skill she uses almost all the time will likewise lead to that skill jumping up and down between e.g. lvl 19 and 20.

**Level Up!** has a cooldown between notifications to make this feel less irritating, but it does not in any way prevent or slow down skill decay. There are other excellent mods that do that though, e.g. RIMMSqol.

### Languages
English

Spanish (Credit: 7f45k)

SpanishLatin (Credit: 7f45k)

Russian (Credit: Player.exe)

German (Credit: Paradies)

French (Credit: Acaila)

Simplified Chinese (Credit: HawnHan)

Portuguese/Brazilian (Credit: randrade86)

Polish (Credit: soshman)

# Installation
Add _Level Up!_ anywhere in your load order.
- Subscribe at the [Steam Workshop](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1701592470)

 _or_

- Download the latest zip-file from [Latest Release](https://github.com/krafs/LevelUp/releases)
- Unzip the contents and place them in your RimWorld/Mods folder.
- Activate the mod in the mod menu in the game.

Commit message:

Added individual features customizable in the mod settings.

README.md, after:

# Level Up!

A RimWorld mod adding notifications when a colonist levels up a skill.

### Compatibility
- Compatible with RimWorld **v1.0** and **v1.1**.
- Partially incompatible with **Static Quality Plus**.

### Notes
- Safe to add and remove from existing saves.
- Add anywhere in your load order.
- This mod is different on v1.0 and v1.1 of RimWorld. You can use it on both versions, but they are slightly different. 
Read the [Release notes](https://github.com/krafs/LevelUp/releases/tag/v2.0.0) to learn what has changed.

### How to use
Just play like normal. You'll get notified whenever a colonist levels up.

*Level up* is enabled by default. If you want to get notifications when a colonist levels down, enable it in the mod settings.

Toggle individual features in the mod settings.

#### "My colonist levels up and then almost instantly down again!"
This is caused by a feature in vanilla RimWorld known as *skill decay*. Skills at lvl 10 and higher lose xp. If xp goes low enough, the skill levels down. The rate of skill decay increases with every level - It is slow at lvl 10, and fast at lvl 20.
This can lead to two problems:

- A colonist on level 10 or higher in a skill she almost never uses will lead to that skill almost always ending up at the very top of lvl 9, because skill decay stops as soon as a skill goes below lvl 10. This means that only a tiny bit of xp is needed to level her up to lvl 10 again, which then goes down to 9 again, and so on.

- A colonist with a high level skill she uses almost all the time will likewise lead to that skill jumping up and down between e.g. lvl 19 and 20.

**Level Up!** has a cooldown between notifications to make this feel less irritating, but it does not in any way prevent or slow down skill decay. There are other excellent mods that do that though, e.g. RIMMSqol.

### Languages
English

Spanish (Credit: 7f45k)

SpanishLatin (Credit: 7f45k)

Russian (Credit: Player.exe)

German (Credit: Paradies)

French (Credit: Acaila)

Simplified Chinese (Credit: HawnHan)

Portuguese/Brazilian (Credit: randrade86)

Polish (Credit: soshman)

# Installation
Add _Level Up!_ anywhere in your load order.
- Subscribe at the [Steam Workshop](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1701592470)

 _or_

- Download the latest zip-file from [Latest Release](https://github.com/krafs/LevelUp/releases)
- Unzip the contents and place them in your RimWorld/Mods folder.
- Activate the mod in the mod menu in the game.
